Hello.
Hi, my name's Steve, and it's an honor to be here with you this week for this week's Gospel of Mark takeaway.
This week we're in the book of Mark chapter 11 verses 1 through 26. And we're looking at a Jesus with the gloves off, so to speak, as he confronted those who were in the
We're in the temple doing injustice to others in God's house, right?
You know we all have things that stir us up in a certain way things that push our buttons in a good way sometimes to make us take action and we see gs
Jesus here looking after the interest of others and taking action on their behalf showing a lot of courage and bravery and really setting an example for what we can do
do.
And so as we look at this passage, we're really going to focus in on verses 15 through 17. So you can read it now with me.
Verse 15 says this:
So they came to Jerusalem. Then Jesus went into the temple and began to drive out those who bought and sold in the temple.
And overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold doves.
And he would not allow anyone to carry wares through the temple.
Then he taught, saying to them, Is it not written, My house, shall be called a house of prayer for all nations?
But you have made it a den of thieves.
You know this is the most important week of Jesus's life and even though it started in a way that was triumphant and rejoicing as he comes into Jerusalem most would have
would agree that this is the most agonizing week of Jesus's life.
But even through all that, he has his mind on others. He's thinking of others more than he's thinking of himself and what's being done to them.
As he drives out those in the temple who again are using God's house for a way to gain wealth for themselves selfishly.
And this brings up a great question for us is when is the last time that you thought about something that was being done to others and got angry about it versus just thinking about it
About yourself.
You know, there's a difference between righteous anger and outrage. I can get outraged about a lot of things that happened to me. South Florida traffic being one of them.
But Jesus here gives us a model of how to look on the interest of others and to take action for it, not just be upset, but actually to take action.
You know there's a lot we can do and there's a lot around us that if we just put energy and some real practical step towards it we could see you know the kingdom of god furthered and we could see
And we can see evil push back in a lot of areas if we're willing not only to be upset in a righteous way, but also to push back against those things that are happening. Thank you.
There's injustice happening in our communities all over. We see injustice in the area of human trafficking. We see injustice in the foster care system. We see injustice as a
Just as we look at different ethnic communities and what's happening to them today,
We see injustice towards the unborn as we think about the area of the sanctity of life.
What would the world look like if we as Christians decided to step into those spaces and not again just get upset but also to do something to show courage to show grace?
show bravery towards taking a step for those areas. You know, you look historically at someone like William Wilberforce, who put a lot of energy towards stopping slavery and eventually
Actually stopped
because of him and other men who were brave enough to stand against what was happening in that day. An example even closer to us is Martin Luther King Jr., someone who
To the civil rights movement. Finally, something that was great and necessary at that time, necessary steps that people took action to
action towards. And then we think, well, what could we do?
or what is God calling you to do in your area, in your sphere of influence. But it's not just about action. It's also about faith and prayer. Look at verse 24 with me.
me.
Therefore I say to you,
Whatever things you ask when you pray believe that you will receive them
And you will have them.
You know, Jesus, as he thinks about things and as he's telling his disciples, when we think about what God wants us to do in our lives and we think about
I think about what's lined up with what he wants in his economy, in his kingdom. Jesus says, ask for those things. In faith, ask boldly because we'll see those things come to fruition.
to fruition, but we must have faith and we must pray.
And when you put those things together, when you put the courage to take action,
When you put faith and you put prayer together, it's no telling what Jesus can do through you, right in the area where you live and in your community, but we must be willing to do that just as we do.
It's just as Jesus confronted those in the temple.
So as we go to prayer now, let's just pray that God would give us all the courage to not just be angry,
But to take a step in a way that's going to make a difference for someone else let's pray
Lord, we thank you for your word because it's living and it's true.
And Lord, we thank you so much for just reading this account.
Lord, and as you show bravery and as you set an example for us to show courage and bravery and God, give us the courage.
To take action in the things that we see.
where injustice is done and we need to help others. Lord help us to do that by the power of your Holy Spirit. Lord we beseech you for the power to do that and Lord we can't wait to see you.
To see what you're going to do through us because we're humbled to be used.
And we pray these things in your name, amen.
Thanks for watching.